%title ZFS Upgrade Issue


---------------------------
[[index.wiki|Index]]
---------------------------

last 5 posts
---------------------------

 - [[1701545547-no-tickets.wiki|No Tickets]]
 - [[1700863814-auvik-trial.wiki|Auvik Trial]]
 - [[1700345096-busy-week.wiki|Busy Week]]
 - [[1700104768-new-job-offer.wiki|New Job Offer]]
 - [[1699564352-webhooks.wiki|Webhooks]]

*Date:* 2023/12/17

*Author:* Tristan Ancelet

= ZFS Upgrade Issue =
== Background ==
----------------
I have an DIY Ubuntu NAS (one of the first few linux installs), and I was having aggravations with the zfs-dkms package that I had setup a couple of years ago to host raided pools for my NAS setup. However, recently during an update I noticed the kernel was updated on the machine to 6.2.0-39-generic which now caused the zfs-dkms to throw errors when apt would run mkinitcpio as the zfs-dkms-2.1.5 module only supported up to kernel 5.19.

While it didn't exactly cause any issues with the zfs installation there was currently (it still functioned fine even with the new kernel). I got tired of it so I decided to compile openzfs from source and install it on my system.

{{{bash
## Run as root
# sudo -i 

git clone https://github.com/openzfs/zfs

## I was missing a few dependencies but installed them like so
apt install uuid-dev libblkid-dev

cd zfs
## Run the autoconf autogen script
./autogen.sh
## Run the configure script to build the Makefile
./configure

## Build the module to make sure everything goes ok
make 

## Had to add the extra modules to the depmod search ath
depmod_cont="$(</etc/depmod.d/ubuntu.conf)"
## Replace "search" with "search extra" to put the extra modules into the depmod path
depmod_cont="${depmod_cont/search/search extra}"
echo "$depmod_cont" > /etc/depmod.d/ubuntu.conf

## Build and intall
make install

## Run ldconfig
ldconfig

## Run depmod
depmod
}}}


== Other issues ==
=== Zpools not importing ===
----------------------------
Upon finishing installation and reboot I noticed that when the server rebooted it didn't mount the pools on boot. I always had to import them manually `zpool import data && zpool import media`

I was confused because the configs setup by my dkms installation were still valid `/etc/defaults/zfs`.

While it took me an hour to figure it out, I eventually figured out what was wrong and why zfs wasn't importing my pools.

the services configured in /usr/lib/systemd/system were setup with the path that bsd/unix would use for the zpool.cache file (`/usr/local/etc/zfs/zpool.cache`) instead of what zfs was configured with on my zfs-dkms installation (`/etc/zfs/zpool.cache`).

=== Resolution ===
------------------
All I ended up needing to do was change the path's that the service files from `/usr/local/etc/zfs/zpool.cache` to `/etc/zfs/zpool.cache` (wherever applicable).

After doing that and rebooting the pools were imported and mounted as they previously had.


